1. What is the essence of FP?
2. What does `f(x:A,y:[B])→C` mean?
3. Why is lazyness a virtue in BDP?
4. What is a monad and what is it used for?
5. How can we exploit immutability?
____
1. functional programming is a programming paradigm where programs are constructed by applying and composing functions
	- Functional programming characteristics: 
		- Absence of **side-effects**: A function, given an argument, always returns the same results irrespective of and without modifying its environment.
		- **Immutable** data structures: Side-effect free functions operate on immutable data.
		- **Higher-order functions**: Functions can take functions as arguments to parametrize their behavior
		- **Laziness**: The art of waiting to compute till you can wait no more
2. this is a function that has 2 input parameters of type A and type B and outputs a result of type C
	1. f: function name
	2. x and y: names of function arguments
	3. A and \[B]: Types of function arguments.
	4. →: Denotes the return type
	5. C: Type of the returned result
	6. \[B]: Denotes that type B can be traversed
3. **Laziness** is an evaluation strategy which delays the evaluation of an expression until its value is needed. Allows to separate defining how you  evaluate a value from when you actually evaluate it. 
	Lazy evaluation is useful for: 
	- Separation a pipeline construction form its evaluation
	- Not requiring to read datasets in memory: we can process the in lazy-loaded batches
	- Generation infinite collections
	- Optimising execution plans
4. **Monads** are a design pattern that defines how functions can be used together to build generic types. Practically, a monad is a value-wrapping type that: 
	- Has an **identity** function
	- has a **flatMap** function, that allows data to be transferred between monad types
	```Scala
	trait Monad[M[_]] {
	  def unit[S](a: S) : M[S]
	  def flatMap[S, T] (m: M[S])(f: S => M[T]) : M[T]
	}
	```
	monads are the tool FP uses to deal with (side-)effects
	- Null points: `Option[T]`
	- Exceptions: `Try[T]`
	- Latency in asynchronous actions: `Future[T]`
5. With immutable data structures, we can:
	- Avoid locking while processing them, so we can process items in parallel
	- Maintain and share old versions of data
	- Reason about changes in the data
	- Safe hash table keys